Add correlation engine to Security Analytics documentation (#3814)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security-analytics/sec-analytics-config/correlation-config.md

Correlation rules allow you to define threat scenarios involving multiple systems in an infrastructure by matching the signatures of threat events occuring in different log types. Once a rule contains at least two different log sources and the preferred fields and field values that define an intended threat secenario, the correlation engine can query the indexes specified in the correlation rule and draw any correlations found between the findings.

## Configuring rules

Follow the steps in this section to create a correlation rule.

1. Begin by selecting **Security Analytics** in the Dashboards home page menu. Then select **Correlation rules** from the Security Analytics menu on the left side of the screen. The **Correlation rules** page is displayed.
   <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/sec-analytics/create-corr-rule.png" alt="The correlation rules page" width="85%">
1. Select **Create correlation rule**. The **Create correlation rule** window opens.
1. In the **Correlation rule details** field, enter a name for the rule.
1. In the **Correlation queries** field, specify a data source and select the index field and field values to be used for the query.

>    A minimum of two queries is required for each correlation rule. Having at least two data sources is the basis for making connections between different systems in an infrastructure and identifying correlations. You can also include more than two queries to better define a threat scenario and look for correlations between multiple systems.

Reviewer: Could this overview information be better suited for the intro of this section? Knowing ahead of time that the correlation rule requires at least two queries to be defined may help simplify this step.

   {: .note }
   * In the **Select index** dropdown list, specify an index or index pattern for the data source. In the **Log type** dropdown list, specify the log type associated with the index.
   * In the **Field** dropdown list, specify a log field. In the **Field value** text box, enter a value for the field.
   * To add more fields to the query, select **Add field**.
     
    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/sec-analytics/c-rule-query1.png" alt="Correlation rule query configuration" width="40%">
    

> 1. After configuring the first query, follow instructions in the previous step to configure a second query. You can select **Add query** at the bottom of the window to add more queries for the rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. After configuring the first query, repeat the previous step to configure a second query. You can select **Add query** at the bottom of the window to add more queries for the rule.
```

---
layout: default
title: Creating correlation rules
parent: Setting up Security Analytics
nav_order: 16
---

# Creating correlation rules

> The correlation engine is an experimental feature released in OpenSearch 2.7. Therefore, we do not recommend using the feature in a production environment at this time. For updates on the progress of correlation engine, see [Security Analytics Correlation Engine](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security-analytics/issues/369) at GitHub. To share ideas and provide feedback, join the [Security Analytics forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/c/plugins/security-analytics/73).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The correlation engine is an experimental feature released in OpenSearch 2.7. Therefore, we do not recommend using the feature in a production environment at this time. For updates on the progress of the correlation engine, see [Security Analytics Correlation Engine](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security-analytics/issues/369) on GitHub. To share ideas and provide feedback, join the [Security Analytics forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/c/plugins/security-analytics/73).
```

{: .warning }

> Correlation rules allow you to define threat scenarios involving multiple systems in an infrastructure by matching the signatures of threat events occuring in different log types. Once a rule contains at least two different log sources and the preferred fields and field values that define an intended threat secenario, the correlation engine can query the indexes specified in the correlation rule and draw any correlations found between the findings.

Reviewer 2: In the last sentence, is "draw" the right verb? If so, would "and draw any correlations between the findings" (remove "found") work?

## Configuring rules

> Having at least two data sources in the rule configuration is the basis for making connections between different systems in an infrastructure and identifying correlations. Therefore, a minimum of two queries is required for each correlation rule. However, you can include more than two queries to better define a threat scenario and look for correlations between multiple systems. Follow the steps in this section to create a correlation rule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Having at least two data sources in the rule configuration is the basis for making connections between different systems in an infrastructure and identifying correlations. Therefore, a minimum of two queries is required for each correlation rule. However, you can include more than two queries to better define a threat scenario and look for correlations between multiple systems. Follow these steps to create a correlation rule:
```

1. Begin by selecting **Security Analytics** in the Dashboards home page menu. Then select **Correlation rules** from the Security Analytics menu on the left side of the screen. The **Correlation rules** page is displayed.
   
   <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/sec-analytics/create-corr-rule.png" alt="The correlation rules page" width="85%">

1. Select **Create correlation rule**. The **Create correlation rule** window opens.
1. In the **Correlation rule details** field, enter a name for the rule.
  

>    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/sec-analytics/corr-rule-config1.png" alt="The correlation rule name" width="50%">

Reviewer 2: Reference the image in the text that precedes it.

  
   <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/Security/sec-analytics/corr-rule-config4.png" alt="A second query for the correlation rule" width="50%">

1. Once the rule is complete, select **Create correlation rule** in the lower-right corner of the window. OpenSearch creates a new rule, the screen returns to the **Correlation rules** window, and the new rule appears in the table of correlation rules.

## Setting a time window

The Cluster Settings API allows you to correlate findings within a set time window. For example, if your time window is three minutes, the system attempts to correlate findings defined in the threat scenario only when they occur within three minutes of one another. By default, the time window is five minutes. For more information about the Cluster Settings API, see [Cluster settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/cluster-api/cluster-settings/).

### Example request

The following PUT call sets the time window to two minutes.

```json
PUT /_cluster/settings
{
  "transient": {
    "plugins.security_analytics.correlation_time_window": "2m"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ## What's next

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```
